3.10 release blog post (#364)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/announcing-sourcegraph-3.10.md

---
title: "Sourcegraph 3.10: Improved search autocompletion, native GitLab integration, and find-and-replace automation campaigns"
author: Christina Forney
publishDate: 2019-11-20T10:00-07:00
tags: [blog]
slug: sourcegraph-3.10
heroImage: https://about.sourcegraph.com/sourcegraph-mark.png
published: true
---

> Sourcegraph is the standard developer platform for code search and navigation at many of the largest and most advanced technology companies. With Sourcegraph, every company has access to the same kind of tools that Google and Facebook developers use every day.

Reviewer: I would invert the order of these two sentences ("Sourcegraph does X, it is popular" instead of "Sourcegraph is popular, it does X")

Author: I'm going to re-write this section for the releases going forward. Thanks for the suggestion!

<div style="padding-left: 2rem">

[**🔬 Improved autocompletion for search query filters**](#improved-autocompletion-for-search-query-filters)<br />

[**🦊 Sourcegraph provides native code intelligence to GitLab**](#sourcegraph-provides-native-code-intelligence-to-gitlab)<br />

> [**🤖 Create cross-repository search and replace campaigns**](#precise-lsif-based-code-intelligence-for-5-languages)<br />

Reviewer 2: this is the same link as below

Author: Good catch, thanks!

## Improved autocompletion for search query filters

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

Autocomplete suggestions make it easier to use filters in your Sourcegraph searches. Use `ctrl-space` to trigger suggestions for filters you can apply to your query. As you type, the suggestions become more relevant, helping you to apply correct filter options or autocomplete repository or file names.

## Sourcegraph provides native code intelligence to GitLab

<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">

>     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/372226334/de668e24fa?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Author: @ryan-blunden - the link to this video isn't working and I'm not sure why.

>     <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/372226334/de668e24fa?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/372226334?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
```

This looks like what you want.

Author: Adding in a follow up commit since there are two places for this.

  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/372226334/de668e24fa" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>

> Sourcegraph users use the [Sourcegraph browser extension](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration/browser_extension) to take advantage of go-to-definition and find references on their code hosts. GitLab recognizes the value this brings to developer productivity and is trusting Sourcegraph to provide this functionality natively to their users. Read our [feature announcement](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/gitlab-integrates-sourcegraph-code-navigation-and-code-intelligence) and [GitLab’s post](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2019/11/12/sourcegraph-code-intelligence-integration-for-gitlab/) about collaborating in the open.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph users use the [Sourcegraph browser extension](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/integration/browser_extension) to take advantage of go-to-definition and find references on their code hosts. GitLab recognizes the value this brings to developer productivity and has partnered with Sourcegraph to provide this functionality natively to all GitLab users. Read our [feature announcement](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/gitlab-integrates-sourcegraph-code-navigation-and-code-intelligence) and [GitLab’s post](https://about.gitlab.com/blog/2019/11/12/sourcegraph-code-intelligence-integration-for-gitlab/) about collaborating in the open.
```

"is trusting Sourcegraph to provide this" introduces the idea we might not be trustworthy to pessimistic readers like myself.

Soon, GitLab.com users will be able to opt-in to native code intelligence for public repositories by enabling Sourcegraph in their user preferences. This feature is being rolled out incrementally to public projects on GitLab.com, and will first be available on the [GitLab repository](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab).

Users with private GitLab instances or repositories can enable Sourcegraph code intelligence as of GitLab 12.5. Take a look at the [Sourcegraph integration documentation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/blob/master/doc/integration/sourcegraph.md) for how to configure it on your instance.

> ## Create cross-repository search and replace campaigns

Author: @sqs @mrnugget (and anyone else on the a8n team) - are you comfortable with how I framed this section? I wanted to use it as an opportunity to introduce comby syntax to the user, since this is a pretty cool new conceptual model that is very powerful.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, absolutely comfortable with it :) Also 👍 on giving a pretty cool example.

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

> Sourcegraph now supports creating and tracking code-aware search and replace campaigns on GitHub and Bitbucket Server. When running a search and replace campaign, you preview the changes, then generate the corresponding pull requests on your GitHub and/or Bitbucket Server instances. Once created, you can track the PRs to completion in a burndown chart.

Reviewer 3: I think something like this sounds more like "look what you can do!" instead of "here's what you have to do":

```suggestion
Sourcegraph now supports creating and tracking code-aware search and replace campaigns on GitHub and Bitbucket Server. When running a search and replace campaign, you can preview the changes across repositories and then generate the corresponding pull requests on your GitHub and/or Bitbucket Server instances. Once created, you can track the PRs to completion in a burndown chart.
```

Author: Outdated version, so updated manually!

> Sourcegraph now supports creating and tracking code-aware search and replace campaigns on GitHub and Bitbucket Server. When running a search and replace campaign, you preview the changes, then generate the corresponding pull requests on your GitHub and/or Bitbucket Server instances. Once created, you can track the PRs to completion in a burndown chart.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph now supports creating and tracking code-aware search and replace campaigns on GitHub and Bitbucket Server. When running a search and replace campaign, you preview the changes, then generate the corresponding pull requests on your GitHub or Bitbucket Server instances. Once created, you can track the PRs to completion in a burndown chart.
```

^ nit, and I don't feel strongly about it

Author: for cleanup I'd prefer the and (rather than the or) because I want to communicate that it can create PRs in BOTH places if they want! :)

> Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automation search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged througout your code:

Author: @rvantonder - can you please review this section?

> Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automation search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged througout your code:

Reviewer 3: You used `code-aware` previously, suggesting this for consistency:

```suggestion
Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automation search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code-aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged througout your code:
```

Author: Outdated version, so updated manually!

> Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automation search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged througout your code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automated search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged throughout your code:
```

fixed typos:

s/automation/automated/g
s/througout/throughout/g

> Sourcegraph is introducing [Comby syntax](https://comby.dev/#basic-usage) for automation search and replace campaigns. Comby is a code aware search syntax that simplifies finding patterns in code. This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write. For example, changing how errors are logged througout your code:

Reviewer 4: > Comby is a code aware search syntax

Since comby is a tool and not a syntax, maybe "Comby uses" or "supports" or a code aware search syntax? Alt: `Comby syntax is code aware and ...`

> `code-aware`

I think?

> This makes operations that previously required complex regexp or sed queries much simpler to write.

Not so sure about the "previously", it could create the impression that we somehow had this capability before and now changed it (I follow the intended meaning). It might also be a good idea to communicate that this is new? Maybe: `This new capability makes operations that could require complex or awkward regexp queries much simpler to write.`

^ Not super attached, just giving a high level impression. 

> For example, to change how errors are logged throughout your code:

s/changing/to change

Author: I referred to it as Comby since that is how the campaign is referenced. Should we be calling this structural search and replace instead? I'm happy to introduce new concepts to users, but want to make sure it's the right one...

Author: Updated - let me know if the updated resolves everything for you!

> ```c

Reviewer 4: I like this trick a lot.

// match:
errors.New(fmt.Sprintf(:[args]))

// replace:
fmt.Errorf(:[args])
```

Sourcegraph Automation campaigns are in private beta. [Watch the Automation screencasts](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation#see-it-in-action) to see what we have planned and [apply for early access](https://about.sourcegraph.com/contact/request-automation-demo/) to Automation for your organization.

> ## Precise LSIF-based code intelligence for 5 languages

Author: @chrismwendt and @efritz can you please review this section?

Reviewer 5: I've mostly been working on the indexers and docs, so this LGTM from that perspective :+1:

TO DO: VIDEO

<!--
<p class="container">
  <div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
    <iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/{ID}?color=0CB6F4&amp;title=0&amp;byline=" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen="" mozallowfullscreen="" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
  </div>
  <p style="text-align: center"><a href="https://vimeo.com/{ID}" target="_blank">View on Vimeo</a></p>
</p>
-->

With the completion of the Java LSIF indexer, LSIF-based precise code intelligence now supports five languages: Go, Typescript, Java, C++, and Python. See [lsif.dev](https://lsif.dev/) for the most up-to-date information on the list of languages with LSIF indexers.

> We are looking for feedback from project owners interested in trying out precise code intelligence! If you are responsible for projects using any of the languages we support, we’d love to hear from you. Use our new [LSIF quickstart guide](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/user/code_intelligence/lsif_quickstart) to try it out manually before adding it as a step in your CI.

Reviewer: I would rephrase the responsibility aspect here, it sounds like a large commitment. Maybe say something like "If you would like to try out precise code intelligence for one of the languages we support (requires pushing LSIF data from e.g. your CI pipeline), we'd love to get in touch with you!

Author: I actually don't think that sentence adds value here (now that you point it out). Cutting it - let me know if that helps!

> ## Scaling search for our largest customers

Author: @slimsag  can you please review this section (or @keegancsmith when he wakes up :) )

Reviewer: LGTM I left some suggestions inline

> Customers with large Kubernetes deployments can now horizontally scale their search indexes by adding more search nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Customers wanting better indexed search performance or wishing to add many more thousands of repositories to Sourcegraph are now in luck! Sourcegraph's indexed search can now scale horizontally in cluster deployments.
```

> **This improvement requires a Kubernetes migration**. The Kubernetes [deployment manifest](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph) for indexed-search services has changed from a Normal Service to a Headless Service. This enables Sourcegraph to individually resolve indexed-search pods. Services are immutable, so please follow the [migration guide](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#310).

Reviewer: This needs to be much more front-and-center (maybe out of this section and more near the top or something?). It's not just people wanting this improvement that need a migration -- ALL Kubernetes clusters will need to run this migration, period. I would phrase it something like:

> **IMPORTANT:** Kubernetes clusters will require a manual migration, please see [the migration guide](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph/blob/master/docs/migrate.md#310) for details.

Author: How's this?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1559622/69210263-01277700-0b0f-11ea-9060-0d0e02e11706.png)

## Fully automated release testing process

> As part of Sourcegraph’s ongoing commitment to providing the highest quality, stable releases, our manual end-to-end release testing process has been replaced with a fully automated regression testing suite. Read more about this in the upcoming blogpost from Beyang, Sourcegraph CTO.

Author: @beyang - are you ok with the last sentence commitment? If not we can pull it. Does this section capture what we accomplished? Any implementation details that would be cool to share?

Author: Confirmed.

> As part of Sourcegraph’s ongoing commitment to providing the highest quality, stable releases, our manual end-to-end release testing process has been replaced with a fully automated regression testing suite. Read more about this in the upcoming blogpost from Beyang, Sourcegraph CTO.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As part of Sourcegraph’s ongoing commitment to providing the highest quality, stable releases, our manual QA process has in the last two months been turned into a fully automated regression testing suite. We continue to aggressively invest in automated testing of Sourcegraph to provide extremely stable and reliable releases, and ultimately better features for our users. Look forward to reading more about this in an upcoming blogpost from Sourcegraph CTO, Beyang Liu, [on our blog](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/).
```

Author: This is way better, thanks @slimsag!

- Directory names on the repository tree page are now shown in bold to improve readability.
- Added support for Bitbucket Server pull request activity to the [Automation](https://about.sourcegraph.com/product/automation/) campaign burndown chart. When used, this feature leads to more requests being sent to Bitbucket Server, since Sourcegraph needs to keep track of how a pull request's state changes over time. With [the instance scoped webhooks](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1I3Aq1WSUh42BP8KvKr6AlmuCfo8tXYtJu40WzdNT6go/edit) in our [Bitbucket Server plugin](https://github.com/sourcegraph/bitbucket-server-plugin/pull/10) as well as up-coming [heuristical syncing changes](#6389), this additional load will be significantly reduced in the future.

### Fixed

- Support hyphens in Bitbucket Cloud team names. [#6154](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/6154)
- Server will run `redis-check-aof --fix` on startup to fix corrupted AOF files. [#651](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/651)
- Authorization provider configuration errors in external services will be shown as site alerts. [#6061](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/6061)

### Removed

> ## 3.9.4

Reviewer: Why is 3.9.4 and other older releases mentioned here?

Can we just link to the changelog instead of copying it into our blog posts, I wonder?

Author: In a few releases, there were features included in prior patches that we wanted to make sure were mentioned for anyone who just wanted to skim the whole thing here. I started including the previous patches for that reason, so that this was a representation of "everything that changed since the last release". Thoughts?

Author: I'm going to leave this for now, but we should chat about if this should change going forward.

Author: I'm going to leave this for now, but we should chat about if this should change going forward.

## 3.9.2

### Fixed

- URI-decode the username, password, and pathname when constructing Postgres connection paramers in lsif-server [#6174](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/6174). Fixes a crashing lsif-server process for users with passwords containing special characters.

## 3.9.1

### Changed

- Reverted [#6094](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/6094) because it introduced a minor security hole involving only Grafana.
  [#6075](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/6075) will be fixed with a different approach.

The [changelog for this and previous releases](https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#3.10) is available on GitHub.

## Thank you

Thank you to the many people who contributed to Sourcegraph since the last release!

- [@prayashm](https://github.com/prayashm)
- [@abeyerpath](https://github.com/abeyerpath)
- [@gerbal](https://github.com/gerbal)
- [@jlangston](https://github.com/jlangston)
- [@425183525](https://github.com/425183525)
- [@kevachen](https://github.com/kevachen)
- [@brentshermana](https://github.com/brentshermana)

> **Deploy or upgrade:** [Local](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/#quickstart-guide) | [AWS](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph-aws) | [DigitalOcean](https://marketplace.digitalocean.com/apps/sourcegraph?action=deploy&refcode=48dfb3ccb51c) | [Kubernetes cluster](https://github.com/sourcegraph/deploy-sourcegraph)

Reviewer: We are getting rid of the DigitalOcean one click app for now so we should remove the link to it here.

https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/issues/6666

> From the entire Sourcegraph team ([@srcgraph](https://twitter.com/srcgraph)), happy coding!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the entire [@srcgraph](https://twitter.com/srcgraph) team, happy coding!
```
